federalist 31 the same subject continued
concerning the general power of taxation
from the new york packet
tuesday january 1st 1788
hamilton to the people of the state of
new york
disquisitions of every kind there are
certain primary truths or first
principles upon which all subsequent
reasonings must depend
these contain an internal evidence which
antecedent to all reflection or
combination commands the ascent of the
mind where it produces not this effect
it must proceed either from some defect
or disorder in the organs of perception
or from the influence of some strong
interest or passion or prejudice
of this nature or the maxims in geometry
that the whole is greater than its part
things equal to the same are equal to
one another two straight lines cannot
enclose a space
and all right angles are equal to each
other of the same nature are these other
maxims in ethics and politics
that there cannot be an effect without a
cause that the means ought to be
proportioned to the end
that every power ought to be
commensurate with its object that there
ought to be no limitation of a power
destined to affect a purpose which
is itself incapable of limitation and
there are other truths
in the two latter sciences which if they
cannot pretend to rank in the class of
axioms are yet such direct inferences
from them and so obvious in themselves
and so agreeable to the natural and
unsophisticated dictates of common sense
that they challenge the ascent of a
sound and unbiased mind with a degree of
force and conviction almost equally
irresistible
the objects of geometrical inquiry are
so entirely abstracted from these
pursuits which stir up and put in motion
the unruly passions of the human heart
that mankind without difficulty adopt
not only the more simple theorems of the
science
but even those abstruse paradoxes which
however they may appear susceptible of
demonstration
are at variance with the natural
conceptions which the mind without the
aid of philosophy would be led to
entertain upon the subject
the infinite divisibility of matter or
in other words the infinite divisibility
of a finite thing
extending even to the minutest atom is a
point agreed among geometricians
though not less incomprehensible to
common sense than any of those mysteries
in religion
against which the batteries of
infidelity have been so industriously
leveled
but in the sciences of morals and
politics men are found far less
tractable
to a certain degree it is right and
useful that this should be the case
caution and investigation are a
necessary armor against error and
imposition
but this untractableness may be carried
too far and may degenerate into
obstinacy perverseness or disingenuity
though it cannot be pretended that the
principles of moral and political
knowledge have
in general the same degree of certainty
with those of the mathematics
yet they have much better claims in this
respect than to judge from the conduct
of men in particular situations we
should be disposed to allow them
the obscurities much often are in the
passions and prejudices of the reasoner
than in the subject
men upon too many occasions do not give
their own understandings fair play
but yielding to some untowered bias they
entangle themselves in words and
confound themselves in subtleties
how else could it happen if we admit the
objectors to be sincere in their
opposition
that positions so clear as those which
manifest the necessity of a general
power of taxation in the government of
the union
should have to encounter any adversaries
among men of discernment
though these positions have been
elsewhere fully stated they will perhaps
not be improperly recapitulated in this
place
as introductory to an examination of
what may have been offered by way of
objection to them
they are in substance as follows the
government ought to contain in itself
every power requisite to the full
accomplishment of the objects committed
to its care
and to the complete execution of the
trusts for which it is responsible
free from every other control but a
regard to the public good and to the
sense of the people
as the duties of superintending the
national defense and of securing the
public peace against foreign or domestic
violence involve a provision for
casualties and dangers to which no
possible limits can be assigned
the power of making that provision ought
to know no other bounds than the
exigencies of the nation and the
resources of the community
as revenue is the essential engine by
which the means of answering the
national exigencies must be procured
the power of procuring that article in
its full extent must necessarily be
comprehended in that
providing for those exigencies as theory
and practice conspire to prove that the
power of procuring revenue is unavailing
when exercised over the states in their
collective capacities the federal
government must of necessity be invested
with an unqualified power of taxation
in the ordinary modes did not experience
events the contrary
it would be natural to conclude that the
propriety of a general power of taxation
in the national government
might safely be permitted to rest on the
evidence of these propositions
unassisted by any additional arguments
or illustrations
but we find in fact that the antagonists
of the proposed constitution
so far from acquiescing in their
justness or truth seem to make their
principle and most zealous effort
against this part of the plan
it may therefore be satisfactory to
analyze the arguments with which they
combat it
those of them which have been most
labored with that view seem in substance
to amount to this
it is not true because the exigencies of
the union may not be susceptible of
limitation that its power of laying
taxes ought to be unconfined
revenue is as requisite to the purposes
of the local administrations
as to those of the union and the former
are at least of equal importance with
the latter to the happiness of the
people
it is therefore as necessary that the
state government should be able to
command the means of supplying their
wants as that the national government
should possess the like faculty in
respect to the wants of the union
but an indefinite power of taxation in
the latter might and probably would in
time
deprive the former of the means of
providing for their own necessities
and would subject them entirely to the
mercy of the national legislature
as the laws of the union are to become
the supreme law of the land
as it is to have power to pass all laws
that may be necessary for carrying into
execution the authorities with which it
is proposed to vest it
the national government might at any
time abolish the taxes imposed for state
objects upon the pretense of an
interference with its own
it might allege a necessity of doing
this in order to give efficacy to the
national revenues
and thus all the resources of taxation
might by degrees become the subjects of
federal monopoly to the entire exclusion
and destruction of the state governments
this mode of reasoning appears sometimes
to turn upon the supposition of
usurpation in the national government
at other times it seems to be designed
only as a deduction
from the constitutional operation of its
intended powers
it is only in the latter light that it
can be admitted to have any pretensions
to fairness
the moment we launch into conjectures
about the usurpations of the federal
government we get into an unfathomable
abyss and fairly put ourselves out of
the reach of all reasoning
imagination may range at pleasure till
it gets bewildered amidst the labyrinths
of an enchanted castle
and knows not on which side to turn to
extricate itself from the perplexities
into which it has so rashly adventured
whatever may be the limits or
modifications of the powers of the union
it is easy to imagine an endless train
of possible dangers
and by indulging in excess of jealousy
and timidity we may bring ourselves to a
state of absolute skepticism and
irresolution
i repeat here what i have observed in
substance in another place
that all observations founded upon the
danger of usurpation
ought to be referred to the composition
and structure of the government
not to the nature or extent of its
powers the state governments by their
original constitutions
are invested with complete sovereignty
in what does our security consist
against user patient from that quarter
doubtless in the manner of their
formation and in a due dependence of
those who are to administer them upon
the people
if the proposed construction of the
federal government be found upon an
impartial examination of it to be such
as to afford to a proper extent the same
species of security
all apprehensions on the score of
usurpation ought to be discarded
it should not be forgotten that a
disposition in the state governments to
encroach upon the rights of the union is
quite as probable as a disposition in
the union to encroach upon the rights of
the state governments
what side would be likely to prevail in
such a conflict must depend on the means
which the contending parties could
employ toward ensuring success
as in republic strength is always on the
side of the people
and as there are weighty reasons to
induce a belief that the state
governments will commonly possess
most influence over them the natural
conclusion is that such contests will be
most apt to end to the disadvantage of
the union
and that there is greater probability of
encroachments by the members upon the
federal head
than by the federal head upon the
members but it is evident that all
conjectures of this kind must be
extremely vague and fallible
and that it is by far the safest course
to lay them all together aside and to
confine our attention wholly to the
nature and extent of the powers as they
are delineated in the constitution
everything beyond this must be left to
the prudence and firmness of the people
who as they will hold the scales in
their own hands it is to be hoped will
always take care to preserve the
constitutional equilibrium between the
general and the state governments
upon this ground which is evidently the
true one it will not be difficult to
obviate the objections which have been
made to an indefinite power of taxation
in the united states
publius